 INSTRUCTIONS:

Features: Speaks every action and everything displayed in a human voice. Help key explains every option and game. Contains a spoken instruction manual and rules for every game. Full displays for sighted users.  Games and options to make playing fun for beginners and experts. Easy 4-key menu interface for all options.  History (un-throw dart) feature corrects mistakes. Optional spoken name for each player. Keeps 20 names for future use.  League options. Ten level volume.  Calls 'inside' and 'outside' hits.  25 or 50 point double bulls eye. Optional 'clock position' called for each dart.  External speaker jack for loud speakers or communication aids. Virtually self-explaining.  PVC pipe stand available. Press down arrow to hear the next paragraph of the instructions.

Board description:
The dart board measures 29 inches high by 21 wide by 2 inches thick.  The power cord plugs in on the lower right side.  There is an audio jack above the power connector on the right side.  On the back are two holes, on the center line from bottom to top, for mounting the board on the wall.  If you are using the wall stand, there are four small holes on the sides of the board that line up with bolts on the stand.  On the front of the board, the big circular part is called the dart board head.  Under it are the displays and on the bottom the buttons.

Buttons:
There are seven buttons on the front of the panel, plus one that is currently unused.  The left most button is the help key.  The help key is marked with the letter H, and provides help throughout each menu and game.  The 2nd button from the left is the left arrow.  The left arrow is used to move back through your menu choices.  The next button is the down arrow.  The down arrow is used to select or un-select a menu choice.  The fourth button from the left is the up arrow.  The up arrow is used to select or un-select menu choices as well.  The right arrow is the fifth most button from the left. For example, when you turn on the dart board, if you hit the right arrow, it will take you to "select number of players".  Using the up or down arrow selects how many players you would like to play from one to eight.  Then you can use your right arrow to continue moving through the menu list.   Marked with the letter S, is the stats key.  The stats key is used to keep track of people's scores, darts per round, and specialty things in the game "Cricket."  The very right hand button is what is called "change player". The change player is marked with a letter C.  It is used to move on to the next player or round after you have thrown three darts.  It is also used from the main menu to start and end a game.  

Segments:
The dart head, the big circular part, is composed of segments grouped into sections and rings.  When you throw a dart, it sticks in one of the segments.   There are 20 numbered sections, but they don't go in order.  Each section is marked with a raised number on the outside of the ring.  As you become good at darts, you will want to learn the position of the numbers.  There are seven rings. The outer most ring is the doubles ring.  That means that anywhere around that ring, you will get a double point value.  For example, if you hit the 17, but hit it in the outer most ring, it will count as a "double 17."  That would give you 34 points.  The 2nd ring in is the outer singles ring, worth only one of whatever you hit.  The 3rd ring in is the triples ring.  If you hit a 10, but it is in the third ring in, it will count as a triple 10 or 30 points.  The fourth ring is the inner singles ring.  That too is worth one of anything you hit.  The most inner rings are the outer and inner bullseye.  The outer ring is generally worth

Mounting the board:  Choose a section of wall with a power outlet and at least 3 meters (10 feet) of floor in front of it.  Locate a stud on the wall.  Unwind the string and screws provided.  Hold the top screw against the a stud so that the weight on the bottom of the string just touches the floor.  Push the two screws into the wall.  You can drill a pilot hole before inserting the screws to make insertion easier.  Leave about 13 millimeters (half an inch) sticking out of the wall. The screws should line up with the mounting holes in the back of the dart board.  Loosen or tighten the screws to get a tight fit.  If properly mounted, the center of the bulls eye should be 68 inches from the floor. If you do not wish to put screws in the wall, a dart board stand is available.

The toe board: A toe board made of P V C Pipe is included with each dart board. Unfold the pipe into a rectangle 2 feet wide and little over 8 feet long.  The end with the thick pipe is the toeboard that you must stand behind.  The other end has screw holes so that you can mount it to the floor or wall. It may be useful to tape it down to prevent it from moving. The toe board should be 248 centimeters (97 and a half inches) from the wall, which is 8 feet from the bull's eye. Be careful not to trip over the P V C frame.  Fold it up against the wall, when not in use.

General rules: Any soft tip dart may be used provided it's total weight is 18 grams or less. Do not use steel tipped darts! They will destroy the dart board. The toe line is 248 centimeters or 76 and  5 sixteenths inches from the wall. If a players foot extends over the throw line, it is called a foul and any darts thrown in the round need to be erased with the History feature. A player may lean as far over the line as they desire, as long as they are not standing with any part of their foot over the line. If the board scores a dart, it is legal, even if the dart bounces out of the board or is knocked out.

Button sensitivity:  Any time that you can throw darts, the buttons have to be held in longer so any darts accidentally thrown at the buttons, will not make them register.  When you are going through menus and not throwing darts, it only takes a lite tap on the button to make it work.

Dart and round counting lites:  The upper row of lites shows how many darts have been thrown. The bottom row of lites shows which round you are on.  A green lite counts as 1. A yellow lite counts for 5 and a red lite counts for 10.  During cricket games, these lites have a different use, and there is no visible dart or round counter.

Score displays:  There are 4 numeric displays. The active display will be brighter than the rest. Before you start a game, the left display will display the number of players.  The next display will show the game selected, and the third display will show the value of the current option.  It changes as you scroll right and left through options.  During games, the displays show the scores for each player. Players 5 through 8 use the same displays as players 1 through 4, but show a dot on the left digit. If the score is over one thousand, the dot on the right digit will show.  If the score is over two thousand, dots will show over the first two digits.

Stuck segment:  Stuck segments are usually caused by a broken dart tip. If the tip is sticking out, pull it out with pliers.   If the tip is flush with the surface, it can be pushed through the hole into the game with an object narrower than a dart tip. The segments message will show on all displays, but will be removed as soon as a dart is thrown, or a button is pressed.

Stored Names: You may give each player a name instead of the numbers 1 to 8. The first 8 names in the list are pre-recorded.  You can have these customized for a fee. The next 20 names start as the most popular names of each gender in 1968.  If you add new names, the 20 most used names are kept in the list, and the less used names are discarded. You can add new names by selecting ENTER NEW NAME, and typing it in letter by letter.

Beacon:  To help you find the board while blindfolded, the board can make a repeated sound whenever you are throwing darts.  Notice that it sounds different as you move your head from left to right. You can choose from a ping sound or a ticking sound.  The object is to be between the two speakers, and throw directly in front of you.

Default Options: When you turn the power on, every menu selection is set to a stored value.  If the Change Player button is the first button you press, you will be playing with these, default, values. You can change the defaults to anything you want.  Set every menu option just the way you like them, and them select Set Default Options from the menu on the far left.  Now these options will be selected every time the power comes on. If you want to return the options to their original values at power up, select Restore Factory Defaults.

Cleaning the board: Do not use spray cleaners or anything containing ammonia, acetone or other harsh chemicals.  Dusting with a damp cloth should be sufficient.  For more vigorous cleaning, carefully use a mild detergent on a damp cloth. 

Credits: Concept, software, voice recordings, testing and production, Sam Jasmine and Tomo Lennox. Additional testing by Al Fryc. Display board, power supply and case, DMI Sports.  Original patents, Arachnid Inc. 4057251, 4824121, 4561660, 5318319, 5116063, 5366230, 5114155, 4974857 and D328726.

ű