COUNTUP: Objective: This is a VERY simple game for any number of players. The Object is to have the highest score at the end of 8 rounds. Each player takes turns trying to score the highest points with three darts.Scoring: The thin outer Doubles ring counts as two times the number hit and the thin inner Triples ring counts as three times the number hit. Play begins at zero and the total of the players three darts is added to the previous total each round. The score does not have to end on exactly the target score as it does in the oh 1 games.Double-in option: Each player must hit any double on the board before they may begin counting their score. For example, if the player threw a single 20, a double 20 and a single 20 the score would be 60 points. The first dart did not count because the player had not yet hit a double so only the second and third darts counted. Once a player has Gotten In, subsequent rounds do not require a double be thrown again.GOTCHA: Objective: This is a simple game for any number of players. The Object is to be the first to get 301 points. Each player takes turns trying to score the highest points with three darts. But if, on any dart, you match another player's score, they get sent back to zero.Scoring: The thin outer Doubles ring counts as two times the number hit and the thin inner Triples ring counts as three times the number hit. Play begins at zero and the total of the players three darts is added to the previous total each round. The score has to end on exactly the target score as it does in the oh 1 games.Double-in option: Each player must hit any double on the board before they may begin counting their score. For example, if the player threw a single 20, a double 20 and a single 20 the score would be 60 points. The first dart did not count because the player had not yet hit a double so only the second and third darts counted. Once a player has Gotten In subsequent rounds do not require a double be thrown again.301/501/701/901: Introduction: 3 oh 1, 5 oh 1, 7 oh 1, and 9 oh 1 are all the same game, with different starting scores.  They are simple games to learn and play. yet the game requires skill in order to play well and win. It is a very good game for beginners, because it develops accuracy around the whole board and, the simple rules allow the players to concentrate on their throwing.Scoring: The game play starts with a score of 301, 501, 701 or 901. The Object is to get to exactly zero by throwing rounds of three darts, and subtracting the sum of those darts from your current score. The first player begins by throwing three darts. Each dart is scored by the number where it lands with the Triple ring being worth 3 times the number indicated and the double ring worth 2 times the number indicated while the inside and outside sections score exactly the number indicated. Thus the highest attainable score with three darts is 180 by hitting three triple 20's.Straight In option:  Any segment you hit with your first dart of the game counts.Double in option: Each player must hit any double on the board before they may begin counting their score. For example if the player threw a single 20, a double 20 and a single 20 the score would be 60 points. The first dart did not count because the player had not yet hit a double so only the second and third darts counted. Once a player hits a double, subsequent rounds do not require a double be thrown again.Double Out option: You must hit a double that makes your score exactly zero to win the game. For example, if you have 32 points left, you must hit a double sixteen with your first scoring dart to win. If you miss the double sixteen and hit a single eight, you now have 24 points left and now have a score of 24. Lets say that now you score 23 points with your remaining two darts. You have Busted because you only have 1 point and there is no way to throw half of 1. When you bust, all darts you threw in that round do not count, and your turn is over. You also bust if you end up with less than zero or if you hit exactly zero but your last dart was not a double.Straight Out option:  No double is needed to win, you must simply arrive at zero points. Therefore, if you had a score of 32, simply hitting two single 16's will win the game. The only way to bust in a straight out game is to end up with more points than you need to get to zero.League option:  This only works if there are 4 players. A player is blocked, if the sum of the opponents scores is less then the partner's score. If you are blocked and zero out anyway, you lose! This requires both partners to contribute to a win.  One strong player can not dominate a team game.Strategy: When you have a score of more than 180, you want a high score on every throw. Triple 20s are best, followed by triple 19s, triple 18s, triple 17s and double bulls eyes. When the scores get low, the player starts to need to think about how they are going to go Out. You have to hit something that gets you close to zero without going over.CRICKET: Cricket is the most common dart game played in bars across America and England. Cricket is a game that, unlike x01, requires some strategy which can help a weaker player beat a stronger player.Object:  Close all your numbers (20 down through 15 and bulls-eye) and end up with more or equal points to your opponent. To close a number, you must hit three of that number. Each dart that lands in any of the games numbers count toward closing that number. The thin outer ring counts as two of that number and is called a Double. The thin inner ring counts as three of that number and is called a triple. When three of a number is scored in any combination, it is closed. The first player throws three darts at any of the scoring numbers to try to close that number and/or score points (points will be explained later, and games can be played without points). The player then scores the darts that he has thrown and play alternates until one person closes all their numbers and has more or equal points to the opponent.Scoring: After you close a number, if all your opponents do not have the same number closed, any darts that land in that number count as points for you. For example, you have your 18 closed and your opponent only has one 18. If you throw a triple 18, you now have 54 points added to any points you may have already scored. If your last opponent now throws a triple 18, only two count to close the number. The third does not count for points because your 18 is already closed.Ending the game: If a player has all of their numbers closed including bulls eyes but has less points, that player has not yet won the game. He must throw enough points to be even or ahead of the opponent. If the only number the opponent has open is bulls eyes, then the player must throw extra bulls eyes at 25 points each (or 50 points for the double bulls eye).Double in option: Each player must hit a double on the board before any marks count. For example if the player threw a single 20, a double 20 and a single 20, they would have 3 marks on 20. The first dart did not count because the player had not yet hit a double so only the second and third darts counted.  Once a player hits a double, subsequent rounds do not require a double be thrown again.Classic Cricket option:  It takes 3 marks on a number to close it.  After a number is closed, you get points for each additional mark on that number, until the last player closes it. Your score is the number of additional marks times the number of the segment.  Bulls eyes are 25 points. The highest score winsCut Throat Cricket option:  It takes 3 marks on a number to close it. Points for additional marks are added to any player who still has that number open. The lowest score wins.  Cut Throat is popular when you have more than two players.Quick Cricket option:  Like other cricket options, you need 3 marks on each number to close it, but you do not get points for additional marks on the same number.  The first person to open each number and the bulls eye wins.  The score is the number of opens you have.Cricket Lights:  The top row of lights shows your marks. No light means no marks, or everyone has closed it.  A Red means 1 mark. Yellow means 2 marks, and green means 3 marks or more. The bottom row shows the combined marks from everyone else. Off means everyone has closed it.  Green means no one else has closed it.  Yellow means at least one of your opponents has closed it.  Red means they are scoring on it.KILLER: Introduction: This is the most popular game for large groups. The game is played in 3 phases.First Phase:  Throw a dart to determine your number.  If you hit the same number that someone else has gotten, you have to throw again, until you get a unique number.  The displays show your number.Second Phase: After everyone has a number, the displays show the how many lives you have. You have to hit a double of your number to become a killer.Third Phase: After you are a killer, you can subtract a life from other players every time you hit their number. If you hit your own number again, you take one of your own lives. When anyone's life count goes to zero, they are out of the game.  The last one alive wins.Lives Option: You can select the number of lives you get when the game starts.AROUND THE CLOCK: Introduction: Around The Clock is a very easy game, but good practice, because it uses the whole board. It is also a very fast moving game and can usually be finished in under 10 minutes. Any number of players can play.Object: Hit every number on the board IN ORDER and finish before the other players. The only scoring in this game is to keep track of which number you are on. The first player tries to shoot first at 1, when a one is hit, play moves on to two and so on, until all three darts are thrown. The next player then does the same thing, and so on. Remember only the number that the player is shooting for counts and all the numbers must be shot in order.GOLF: Introduction: In most dart games each player throws three darts at a time. In this game, players take turns throwing one dart each, and can throw up to 5 darts before removing them.Objective: Each round, with up to 5 darts per player, is called a hole. If you are on hole 3, you try to hit a 3 in as few throws as possible. If you get it on the first throw, it is a hole in one.  If your dart misses the board, press the Change Player button, to allow the next player to throw.  Each throw is called a stroke, and you get a maximum of 5 strokes for each hole. When each player has hit or had 5 tries at the last hole, the game is over, and the player with the lowest score wins.  Press the Change Player button to end the game.Options: You can choose either a 9 hole or an 18 hole game from the options before you start the game.BASEBALL: Objective: Baseball is a very simple and fun game that may be played with any number of players or teams.  The object is to score the most amount of runs each inning. The highest score at the end of the game wins. Each player in order throws three darts at the number of the current inning. The target is 1's in the first inning, 2's in the second, etc.Scoring: Each number only counts in that the actual inning. For example, if a 4 is hit in the first inning, it does not count. The Double ring counts as two runs. The Triple ring counts as three runs with the other sections of that number counting as one run. Therefore, the highest attainable score in any one inning is nine. The number of runs scored is NOT multiplied by the inning number. For example, in the second inning, two single 2's and a double 2 are scored; that players score would be four for that inning.Ties: If there is a tie at the end of the ninth inning, extra innings are played. Extra innings continue until after all players have thrown for that inning and no tie exists. If a tie exists at the end of inning 20 a final inning is played with the bulls eyes as the target. If there is still a tie, the game ends with a tie score.PRACTICE: In training mode, you use as many darts as you have, and aim at the bulls eye every time.  The board will tell you how close each dart lands to the bulls eye.  This develops accuracy and motor control when aiming.  After you have learned to hit what you are aiming for, you will be better at playing the other games.  You don't have to push the Change Player button, until you are ready to quit training. ű